Hey, everyone.
Hey.
Hey, Brian.
Hey, Anthony.
Welcome to the show, you guys.
This is a big one.
You about ready to kick it off?
Yeah.
Yeah, let's do it.
All right.
Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds.
This is episode 256, or as Anthony Shaw likes to put it, 2 to the 8th, recorded October
27th 2021 again, unless you're Anthony, which is probably like a totally different day in the future because he's in Australia
I'm Michael Kennedy and I'm Brian Okken and I'm Anthony Shaw. Hey, hey Anthony
How is the the 28th is the next day gonna be good or things are okay. Yeah, it's pretty sunny today
It's nice right on. Okay, so the world hanging that things together for one more day. Fantastic. Welcome to the show
You've been here before you've been on talk Python a bunch of times friend of the show
all sorts of stuff.
So I'm sure many people know you,
but just tell people a bit about yourself.
You're doing more techie things these days.
You're a little closer to the code, maybe?
- Yeah, so earlier this year,
I started working at Microsoft
and worked with Nina Zakharenko on Python inside Microsoft.
And yeah, a lot of what I'm doing at the moment,
it's just running around,
breaking things sometimes on purpose.
- Yeah, just saying how we can improve our experience
and working with VS Code and Azure
and a whole bunch of other stuff.
So yeah, it's been a while since the last episode
was episode 100, I think.
- Wow, you're hitting the big numbers.
- So yeah, this two to the eighth
is a significant milestone, I think.
- It is. - It's pretty cool.
- Yeah, awesome.
Well, we're happy to have you here.
Thanks for being here.
Also something to do with a puppy I've seen on Twitter.
- Oh yeah, I got a puppy as well.
- Oh, how cute.
- He's not. - Golden something.
- He's a border collie, but he's kind of golden colored.
But he's not in the room at the moment.
He's not allowed in here while I'm recording.
I thought it would be a bit chaotic.
- Yeah, my puppy sometimes is here,
but it's very bizarre the way that puppies
socialize around COVID.
Instead of us being gone and then we come home,
she now knows and understands the expressions I make
to end a Zoom call.
So she'll sit quietly for an hour,
And as soon as I say goodbye on Zoom,
she's like, we're ready to go, let's go.
It's super bizarre, but yeah, that's the world we live.
So enjoy the new puppy.
Brian, you wanna kick us off with our first topic here?
- Sure, yeah.
So Lucas Lange, he's, what is he again?
The developer in residence?
- Yes.
- For Python.
Anyway, he wrote an article called,
where does all the effort go?
Looking at Python core developer activity.
And I kind of really liked this article.
He not only talks about really what's going on
with developers and who's doing what,
to start off with, he talked about how he got this data.
So this is also sort of a data processing
sort of information scraping sort of article.
He's looking at the GitHub repository data
for CPython, of course.
and specifically pull request data.
So there's a discussion about,
he's even using data set, which is nice.
We've covered that on the show
and even lists the SQL queries that he has
to try to get some of this data.
So some of the neat data that he's got,
oh, also since Git, the data is from the time
when CPython moved to GitHub.
So that's February 10, 2017.
And it's a, he mentions that it's up through October 9th
is when he pulled the data.
So, but all the information is there
so you could grab it yourself if you want.
Even the little scripts he's got
for modifying some of the data.
But so some of the interesting things,
the top parts of CPython that are modified,
it's probably not that surprising that cval.c
is involved in 259 merge requests.
is the top merged file.
- C val.c, yeah, that's where the byte code processor is.
So yeah, that's where all, that's the center point
or the tunnel everything flows through.
Does that make sense?
- Yeah, and then goes on and looks at
which contributors have merged.
And this is an interesting thing,
or had been involved in PRs.
He lists the top 50 people, but it includes some bots,
which is interesting.
- I was gonna ask that.
I thought Bedivere is probably gonna be up there
or Mrs. LinkedIn.
- Yeah. - They're both bots,
by the way.
- So this is a, I'd actually love to talk to,
or either me or Michael or somebody,
talk to one of the core Python people
to talk about the different bots that are used
and why they're used.
'Cause that's an interesting thing of large projects
using bots to help out with some of the work.
- Yeah, that is interesting.
- And anyway, the non-bots,
there's a couple of people that stand out,
Victor Stinner and Serhii Sorkaka,
so I apologize for messing up your name,
but they're really up there,
so that's pretty interesting that they're involved a lot.
And then there's a description here,
A nice note that Lucas writes,
clearly it pays to be a bot or a release manager
since that's naturally causes you to make a lot of commits.
Victor and Sarah, he are neither of these things
and still generate an amazing activity, kudos.
And also it's not a competition,
but it's still interesting to see
who makes all these recent changes.
By the way, that top PR thing was only since
the beginning of January, 2020.
So taking a look at the more recent stuff.
And then one of the things that's interesting
in looking at who contributed where, I didn't know this.
There's an experts index.
So that was linked, ooh, it's asleep.
An experts index that is part of the Python developers guide.
I didn't know this was here.
It's a kind of lists parts, some parts of the system
but there's blanks.
And so there's, so Lucas also, or listed,
did a script and pulled out the top five contributors
to each file, which is kind of an amazing list
of all of the different, of, you know,
the top five people for every file within CPython.
So if, this is kind of neat,
because if you're going to do a PR
or you're working on a fix or something,
and you're a little confused by some of the code,
one of these people might be able to help you out.
So this is kind of a neat list.
So there's a, at the bottom of the article also,
he talks about some of the takeaways from this.
Don't have this right off the top of my head.
Merging, how long it takes to merge a PR.
So it's hard to draw information from this data
because it's all over the map.
The standard deviations are pretty large,
But if a core developer merges their own PR,
it takes on average about seven days
to get through the process, give or take 42 days.
And then core developer authoring a PR,
which is merged by somebody else,
it takes longer, about 20 days, give or take 78.
And then community authors up to 20 days, give or take 80.
But I mean, I work on commercial projects
that are not really that much faster than this.
So it's not too bad.
Yeah, this is.
Yeah, Anthony, what do you think of this?
You spent a lot of time inside the CPython code.
I mean, you did write a book, CPython Internals, which people can check out, right?
Yeah, that's how you have to write a book about CPython source code.
So it's interesting.
I'm first of all, I'm super excited about Lukasz being the new developer in residence.
I think he's got the right approach and he's already made, you know, really promising progress.
I think in terms of trying to make the community contribution process a bit slicker.
Yeah, that's that at the bottom. Just watching the GitHub repository, core developers
working on the repository and making changes and stuff from the outside looks fairly seamless.
My own personal experience has been sometimes it's quite like if your PR gets responded to
within the first week, then it probably get merged pretty quickly. And then if it doesn't,
then it just kind of ends up in the pile. And I've had ones in there for like three years.
Right. The average was seven, but it could go out at like another 40 days. And it's probably
like really quick or really far. Well, that metric is how long they take to get merged,
which I guess requires that they are merged.
- Oh, yeah.
- So that's a lot of thought.
I mean, there's basically just like loads of people contributing stuff,
and there aren't enough people with enough time to sift through it all,
and it just makes it really tricky.
And the project needs to continue marching forward,
and there's people who are dedicated to working on the core developers.
But, you know, some of the community contributions are really valuable.
I think that's what's promising to me is that Lukasz is kind of looking at that
and not just taking this role on as "I'm going to be a 100% core developer."
Yeah.
Because, yeah, there's already lots of other people on the team
who are making some amazing contributions.
Pablo has been working on the new Pazza
and now he's working on this stackless changes in 3.11.
Yeah, there's so many things going on at the moment in in c python. So it's really encouraging to see
Yeah, it's super encouraging. I think lukash is doing a good job sort of
Smoothing out the edges to just make it easier for everyone to go faster
Which I think a lot of times in teams, you know, not specifically here, but in general
there's these people who are kind of
Oh, that's the person you can ask to make the ci
Work again when you break it
this is the person you asked like you just set up a new machine and remembers how to do that and like
You don't necessarily get direct credit for doing that work, but without them, it's just way harder.
And I feel like he's doing that for CPython behind the scenes.
Yeah, the experts index is really helpful if you want to get involved in bug triaging.
So that's something that people are open to help with.
If you go on bugs.python.org and you want to help to triage bugs,
often what you have to do is kind of look at it,
make sure that the person who's reported it is filled in all enough information,
And then basically add people on the experts index
To something called the nosy list which is like a cc list basically
On the bug and then yeah, it's just kind of directing it to the right people
Once you've done that for a while, then you kind of get given
like a triage
flag in your user and then
If you've been doing that for even longer, then you could be promoted up to a core developer
And there's a few people who've gone through that that rope
Um over the last couple of years nice
All right, Anthony, while you're talking,
I got two things to share out of the audience.
Dimitri Figal, hey Dimitri, great to see you here.
Dimitri says, thanks for inviting Anthony.
He's someone I look up to, very nice.
- Thanks, Dimitri, good to see you.
- Yeah, and Waylon, who was recently on Talk Python.
Hey, Waylon, says what a great lineup here,
also kind of for you.
And also Henry Schreiner, hey Henry,
also recently on Talk Python,
says both PRs I've been involved with to see Python
got in in about a day, I believe,
which that's pretty amazing.
- That's pretty good, yeah.
- That's great.
- Yeah, so before we move off from this one, Brian,
this is a good pick.
One thing I just wanna point out as well
is all of these cool stats and these graphs
and everything we're seeing here apply to CPython
because it's on GitHub, right?
- Yes.
- But you can run the same code
and run dataset from Simon Willison against it,
but against a different repo, I would imagine, right?
- Oh, yeah.
- Yeah, so if you run a project,
you could probably do a similar analysis for your project.
- That's a good idea.
- Yeah.
- Cool. - All right.
Speaking of good ideas,
and it's interesting that Henry's out in the audience,
because I feel like we might have been
responsible for this article.
Clearly we did not write it.
We may have triggered, is what I'm saying.
Mostly me.
In not the positive way, right?
So this is a cool
article by Paul Gansel, who is also
over on Talk Python, talking about
the mysteries of date/time and stuff.
He maintains the detail package and set up tools, projects,
and so on.
Over on episode 271.
So he wrote an article that said,
"Why you shouldn't invoke setup.py directly."
And the reason I think I might have somehow had something
to do with this is Henry was on talking about CI build wheel
and all the proper ways to build packages.
I said, "Oh, you can run setup Python, setup.py, space,
you know, wheel or bdist or something."
or BDist or something, and they're like,
"No, no, no, you could, but please don't do that."
And then here we have this article like two days later.
So I don't know if that was part of that conversation,
but it's a really good article talking about
the state of building Python packages.
And it says, "Look, for a long time,
"setup tools and distutils were the only game in town
"when it came to creating Python packages."
Right, so you could do something like invoke Python setup,
BDist, SDist, wheel, and so on.
Wait, I see.
So Paul is actually in the audience, real time.
Fantastic.
Hey, Paul.
Says, I think I did it because Matthew Fikert asked for it
on Twitter, and I got sniped.
Yeah, perfect.
OK, good.
So just a coincidence.
Fantastic.
But yeah, so the reason this is extra interesting to me--
and thank you, Paul, for writing it--
is I was still doing this Python setup, PY, various commands.
And I was talking to Henry.
He's like, no, you shouldn't do that.
You should do it this other way.
I'm like, he said, well, okay, well, how should I do it?
So you should use build, the build package.
What is this build package you speak of?
You know, so we've talked about pyproject.toml
a bunch of times.
We've talked about things like flit and stuff
that will use it, right?
This all comes from PEP 517.
And there is a package called build.
You can pip install build.
And then you do things like Python-M for module, run build.
And you can say, I want an S-disk, I want a wheel,
and things like that.
And this acts as a front end to things like setup tools,
to the various back ends that do building for Python.
Flit, yeah.
All these different things that understand it, right?
So it says, all direct invocations,
Paul says, all direct invocations of setup.py
are effectively deprecated in favor of purpose-built,
standard-based CLI tools like pip, build, and talks.
So this is quite a long article.
There's a lot to go through.
It has some interesting history.
So in the early days, there wasn't even distutils.
And then in Python 2, distutils got added,
and then set of tools came along.
And then there were, there's, you know, while they work,
there's still problems.
Like for example, you might have dependencies that you have to install to run the setup.
But the way you install stuff and figure out what you depend upon is by running the setup.
So what do you do?
So an example that would be Cython, right?
So for in the, you might have to import Cython and then the invocation of calling setup,
you tell it how to Cythonize the pyx files, right?
But that's obviously not going to work
because you're going to have to have Cython installed.
But how do you express that?
It's like this chicken and egg problem.
All right, so let me pull up my notes here.
Yeah, so basically one of the big questions was
why am I not seeing deprecation warnings?
Let me go down a little further.
Yeah, so if I'm not supposed to do this,
why isn't screaming from the top of its terminal,
Stop, stop, stop, why are you doing this, right?
So there's a lot of commands that still have indirect uses
of a distutils and stuff.
So it's a little tricky to deprecate it,
but basically you should consider it deprecated.
At the end of the day,
it's better to replace your set of commands
with tools like build,
instead of set up the pysdist or bdist wheel,
or talks and knocks instead of set up pytest
and other commands backed by projects
intended to support that.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
So that sound good to you guys?
Where were you on this?
- Brian, you go.
- Well, I don't use--
- I have opinions.
- I mean, I indirectly use build,
but I basically just use flit.
So I'm not writing things with C extensions.
So pure Python stuff, I just do a flit build
or whatever, that works fine.
- Yeah, so that's kind of,
I mean, that's using the pyproject.toml stuff, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, Anthony?
- Yeah, I mean, I kind of, if I'm starting a project now,
then I use pyproject.toml,
and the project doesn't have a setup.py.
There were some reasons why I had to add one in the past,
but that's mostly fixed now.
So I'm either using flit or something similar like poetry.
Um, yeah, and I've worked on projects years and years ago where the setup.py was like just
Ended up just being a script to run ad hoc commands. Like there was a test
Set up.py test and then there's like and lint and
Yeah, what does that have to do with installing software, right? Why is that? Yeah, nothing
It was just like yeah, it just ended up being an entry point to to do things
And one happens to be installed, but there's a bunch of other stuff you might randomly do. Yeah, and that's fine
- I find that it's being deprecated,
but it just, you know, CPython still does that.
Like the setup.py and CPython is still used in that way
and called and invoked directly in the source code.
This is so, yeah, it's good that it'll be deprecated,
but I don't think the tooling is quite ready yet.
- He's not really saying to get rid of setup.py,
just don't use it to run it directly.
- Yeah, find something better.
- pip should do that.
Pip should do the discovery for you,
for PEP 517 and run the correct steps for you.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So a couple of comments out in the live stream
is that while recommending build,
it's nearly impossible to Google to find it.
(laughs)
Henry says, "I love and hate the name.
"So authoritative, so un-Googleable
"and a bit hard to use in conversation."
But yeah, yeah, for sure.
So I think if you wanna take away from this conversation,
Right at the top, there's a tldr section that Paul put in.
Click on the summary, takes you down to a summary,
and you can go to a table, and it says,
"I was about to type this.
"What should I do instead?"
I was about to type setup.py sdist.
What should you type?
Python-m build, having build installed.
Or if I was gonna type setup.py bdist wheel,
I should type Python-m build,
--wheel or something like that.
Setup.py test, oh, maybe pytest or Tox or Knox.
We covered Knox recently with Preston,
which was really fun, I believe, that's the episode.
Setup.py install, no, that's pip install.
Python, setup.py develop, no, that's pip install -e.
And then as well as upload, it goes back to Twine.
So yeah, anyway, I think this is the most actionable bit here.
- Yeah, it's good.
- Yeah, indeed.
All right, well, Anthony, let's talk about
keeping an eye on things.
- Yeah, so I wanted to highlight a project
which has been in the works for a while,
but they've just recently finalized the specifications.
So this is called OpenTelemetry.
It's a part of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation,
the CNCF, and it's a cross-language event tracing,
performance tracing, logging, sampling,
framework for applications, in particular for distributed applications. So if you've got an application which is spread across
multiple microservices, and you want to trace things or monitor performance or whatever across all of the stack.
It's super, it's a super hard problem, right? Maybe you've got a Docker container running this thing that Docker container calls some other service on a different Docker container and
Maybe the logs are even transient.
What are you going to do to know if something went wrong?
Where exactly?
And if you've got an application that's spread across, well, if it's built into multiple
microservices, then, and one of those services has a fault, it's really hard to know where
that fault came from.
So like, if it just says error, blah, blah, blah, blah, you're like, okay, so what triggered
that error?
Which request from a user at the front end?
Or like, how did the error happen in the first place?
how can I fix it?
And also like identifying, I guess, tracking performance across your
application and looking at that.
So there's been attempts at doing this in the past.
Open tracing and open sensors were the two kind of projects beforehand.
So this new project, open telemetry is a merger of open tracing and open sensors.
There's engineers from some big companies working on this, including Microsoft,
but Amazon, Splunk, Google, Elastic, New Relic,
and a whole bunch of others as well,
including actually full-time engineers
from some of those companies working on this.
So yeah, I've been working with an engineer at Microsoft
who works full-time on this project.
He works on, actually there's a few people
who work full-time on this,
but the person who works full-time
just on the Python components to this.
So the Python SDK basically allows you
to instrument lots of different frameworks.
So you can basically drop it into Flask or Django
or Starlet, so if you're using FastAPI
and you can sort of instantly get capture
of what requests are going into the application,
when there's been a crash,
like where that exception's gone,
all the logging information.
You can look at performance records and stuff.
I've been sharing some examples
of where I've wrapped it around a FastAPI app.
And then I can see like performance
of what's the average request time
for each of these parts of the application.
And where is that time spent even down to like--
- This is the data layer section
and this is the business logic and here's the--
- Yeah, exactly.
So I can kind of see like almost like a cool stack
but across the actual components of the app.
So here's where it came into FastAPI.
here's where it went into database.
Like here's how long the query took,
here's how long the ORM took to remodel it.
Here's how long Jinja2k to build the template.
Like, so you can kind of see a breakdown
of all the different components
and how things are being pulled together.
So there's two parts of OpenTelemetry,
actually more than two parts.
I am actually really appreciative of,
even though there are lots of engineers from big companies,
this hasn't been over-engineered yet.
And I'm really hoping it doesn't.
- Is there a factory method in here?
- Yeah, exactly.
Especially 'cause it's like so generic.
There's a real danger of it being just over-engineered.
So if you go on the website and go to registry
and then pick Python on the right-hand side,
you'll see the kind of different extensions you can get.
So instrumentation is basically like,
this is the thing I want to monitor
And it could be like ASCII or async Postgres, for example,
database, Celery, Django, Elasticsearch, Flask.
Like there's a stack of app stacks
that you can just drop it into
and it will give you all the tracing information.
And then there's these things called exporters,
which is basically like once it's got the information,
it can send it to somewhere like Datadog or New Relic
for Azure and AWS, obviously, and Google monitoring as well.
And yeah, actually, I just worked on recently,
if you just want to hack around with it,
there's an exporter for rich
that just basically prints it on the console
so you can see everything that's happening.
- And it's color probably, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So it's all kind of color coded.
It's really nice actually.
So yeah, I'm really excited about this.
I've been mostly trying it with FastAPI
as there aren't really many frameworks
for setting up like decent monitoring
and tracing in FastAPI applications.
And yeah, I think it's really promising.
So I suggest you check it out.
And if you see a framework that needs support or something,
then this is all open source
and they're all accepting contributions as well.
And it's fairly straightforward to add support.
- Yeah, it's got Postgres, MySQL, MongoDB,
Pyramid, Redis, all sorts of good stuff in here.
Another thing maybe worth pointing out here
is because this crosses languages, right?
There's a Python one, but there's also a .NET one,
there's a Swift one and so on,
which means there might be scenarios
where I've got like say a mobile app written in Swift,
and then I've got the backend written in Python
and FastAPI or something,
and you wanna put those together.
Like because it goes across those languages,
Theoretically, that's a thing that could happen.
- Absolutely, yeah.
And you can pull that all together
and it would give a request a trace ID.
So when a request comes into the front end,
a trace ID could carry across the different stacks as well,
which is pretty cool.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
This is neat.
Awesome, thanks for covering.
Now, before we move on,
Brian, we have a sponsor for this episode.
That's cool, huh?
- Yay! - Yay!
Thanks to Shortcut.
shortcut formerly known as Clubhouse.
So they're a really cool project management tool.
And they asked the question,
have you ever really been happy with project management?
You know, how's your JIRA or whatever, right?
How much are you loving it?
So they basically say most are either way too simple
for growing engineering teams to manage everything
or too complex and just throw in the kitchen sink
and you don't wanna work with it.
you've got to constantly tweak it to make it work for you.
So Shortcut, who used to be known as CloudBounce,
is different.
They try to be simple.
It's project management built specifically
for software teams.
It's fast, intuitive, flexible, many other nice positive
adjectives.
So some of the highlights are team-based workflows.
Individual teams can use Shortcuts default workflows
or customize them to match the way they work.
Also, organizational-wide goals and roadmaps.
So these workflows automatically get tied into larger goals.
and feed into like a bigger system outside the team.
Good source control integration, GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket,
all those types of things.
One thing that I really love is the web app has hotkeys.
So it's keyboard friendly, just like PyCharm, VS Code,
whatever, right?
I don't know why more web apps don't have hotkeys.
It's not particularly hard, but they do, which is great.
Iteration planning, so you can set your priorities
and let shortcut run the schedule.
You get nice little burndown charts and so on.
So check them out at shortcut.com/pythonbytes,
shortcut.com/pythonbytes,
because you shouldn't have to project manage
your project management.
That does not sound fun.
So let them do it.
It's their job.
Now, before we move off to the next topic,
Robert Robinson on the audience.
Hey, Robert, this open telemetry sounds interesting.
Wants to try it out.
I do as well.
I feel like this is the kind of stuff
that you just keep putting off,
integrating into your system.
And then once you finally do, you're like,
oh, look how awesome this is.
We can see what's going on.
And it's actually, did you know this part was crashing?
No, I didn't know that.
Nobody looked at the log and it was just eaten,
even the exception, right?
- Yeah.
Tricky, tricky.
All right, Brian, you got the next one.
- So Python's got a few built-ins.
Not a ton, but quite a few.
So this is a, there's an article call from Tushar Sadwani
called "Understanding all of Python through its built-ins."
And it's a pretty like,
he's got a pretty ambitious goal here
to understand everything.
But I actually kind of really enjoyed
even the first part of it.
So I started reading it.
I've been, especially giving it a shot.
I got a shout out to him.
He's been fairly involved on Twitter
answering questions and being involved in conversations.
So that's a good way to get noticed.
But there's a, there's a,
starts off talking about scope.
So what is built-ins are not just things
that Python has built in,
but there's also, it has a relevance to the scoping rules.
And he called it the LEGB scoping rules.
So it's when Python, if Python sees a symbol,
first it looks in the local scope,
then the enclosing scope and the global scope
and then the built-in.
And built-ins really are just anything
that's in the built-in package.
So, and that actually that discussion,
it's a really pretty good discussion
and it helps it kind of, it's good for,
especially newbies to understand,
but even advanced beginners sometimes don't quite understand
what's going on here.
- Yeah, Brian and Anthony,
you both come from C style languages historically, right?
or at least you've spent a lot of time there, right?
Brian, do a lot of C++,
Anthony, I know you've done some C# and stuff.
Did the scoping story of Python confuse you
and kind of leave you a little uncertain in the beginning?
- Yes, definitely.
Especially coming from C++ where it's very well-defined.
- In the curly braces, it's alive,
afterwards it's gone, right?
Like, wait a minute, that's not the story at all.
- Right, and also you've got so many nested curly braces
that could be anywhere, and it's not really,
It seems like, actually, we just don't do that too much
in Python, but Anthony probably know better than me.
If I've gotten like multiple nested curly braces,
we don't have curly braces,
but multiple nested indentations,
does the scope sort of look in outer and outer
and outer ones?
Is that what non-local means?
- There's a non-local keyword,
which is like a whole other thing.
(all laughing)
- I think I've ever used that.
- Closure, variable capture, basically, yeah.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- The difference in global really freaked me out
because really we were pounded into our heads everywhere
is to never use global variables.
But global is different.
The global namespace is not a global variable.
It's more like a module level.
- Yeah, or like a static variable in a class
maybe would be what other people might call it.
- Yeah, it's not a dangerous thing in Python.
So, yeah.
- So I didn't mean to derail you that much,
but I think it's interesting to think about
the built-in scope, the global scope,
these different scopes,
because it's such a different world
from the intuition you get coming from all the C languages.
- Yeah.
Also just sort of just really enjoyed
looking at the language through the scope of built-ins.
It's an interesting take on it.
One of the, I will pull out a few things that he mentions,
and one is all the constants.
I guess I'd never counted them before, but there's five.
There's five constants in Python.
True, false, none, ellipsis, and not implemented.
I do like ellipsis.
We talked about that the other day,
or I guess one or two weeks ago,
using dot, dot, dot instead of pass.
- Are you gonna start doing that?
- I've already started doing that.
- I'm all about it.
I think I'm up for it as well.
- I don't, I guess I don't think I've ever used
not implemented or even looked for it,
but interesting discussion.
Also just liked, I liked looking around.
So here's a section on compile exec and eval.
It's not an alphabetical listing of everything.
It's a more grouping them together.
It's quite a big article,
but I would suggest people just like skim through the list
'cause it's got a good table of contents at the top.
And you can just sort of skim through
what he's talking about and pick a couple
and go read about it.
you'll probably learn something.
So anyway, a good shout out to Tushar for writing this.
- Yeah, this looks super handy.
- Yeah, some of the built-ins are super handy.
I often have a Python REPL open just to do things
that would otherwise be annoying to do on a calculator,
like converting hex integers and vice versa.
There's a hex built-in, which is really helpful actually.
I use X a lot because I'm often looking at data elements
in a packet or something like that
and trying to convert those.
- Yeah, very nice.
Nice one.
Before we move on, Anthony, how do you feel about dot dot dot?
- They should have called it yada yada yada.
(laughing)
- Yeah.
- I think that would be...
- Wait, wait, wait, let's go on.
- Yeah, I use it for type stubs and that's it.
So.
- Yeah.
There's times when you use pass, right?
And I feel like, you know what, dot, dot, dot kind of,
says I kind of know what,
I'm not ready to put stuff here yet.
- I think we should start calling,
instead of ellipses, we should call it dun, dun, dun.
(both laughing)
- Exactly.
All right, how about we hand out some awards?
- Okay.
- To the best open source software of 2021.
Now, who gets to vote on this?
Who gets to say, well, InfoWorld in this example.
So this is according to InfoWorld,
but there may be other rules,
but I found this to be pretty interesting, actually.
I heard about it, learned about it
because Sebastian Ramirez from FastAPI said,
"Yay, we've been voted one of the best open source projects."
So this is called the InfoWorld Bossy 2021 awards.
But what I thought was interesting is going through here,
there was 30 different projects that won awards.
I'm like, "Oh, that's interesting.
Oh, I didn't know about that.
Oh, check this out.
Yeah.
So I wanted to touch on a couple.
So there's some things that may or may not be interesting
to you like Svelte, which is a JavaScript front end,
you know, like view or react.
That's not interesting to me.
But Minikube, Minikube is pretty interesting.
Minikube is a way to run like a baby Kubernetes cluster
right on your computer.
Just say Minikube start and guess what?
You've got a cool little cluster running.
So that might be really helpful for Python people.
Let's see, Pixie, I'm gonna zoom back a little here.
Number five is FastAPI.
I know we're all fans of FastAPI.
I think it's really awesome that it won
and it's worth maybe just giving a quick shout out
to how they described it as Django and Flask
have been leading the Python web frameworks for years.
FastAPI now deserves to be mentioned in the same breath.
I agree.
It calls out the main features,
which are it's truly modern Python web framework
written from the ground up using type hinting,
async and high-speed components by default, that's true.
And I also really liked that they pointed out
that while its name indicates it's primarily for APIs,
it's also really good at writing more conventional websites
with like Jinja templates or even Chameleon templates.
So way to go.
And then you wanna add, or Brian wanna add anything?
- Oh, I just think that I think you're partly to thank
for people considering FastAPI for not just APIs
because you've been beating that drum a little bit as well.
- Yeah, thanks a bunch.
I even created some decorators that make it really easy
to like render templates as response values and stuff.
Yeah, it's fun.
Anthony?
- Oh yeah, I tried out the chameleon thing.
The one you wrote actually.
Yeah, 'cause I'm working on this FastAPI course
with you at the moment.
- Yeah, that's gonna be fun.
- So yeah, I'm a big fan of FastAPI.
I think it's brilliant.
and testament to Sebastian really, because he really kind of builds on something which
is quite complicated, but he makes it seem so effortless. And just working with FastAPI,
like the documentation is excellent. The framework itself is just, is really logical. And,
you know, it's really easy to use. In terms of like the, I've been keeping an eye on
the popularity of the different frameworks and stuff over the last few years.
And Django and Flask are kind of neck and neck and have been for a while.
And FastAPI now is the third most popular according to the metrics that I've seen.
Out of nowhere, third most popular, yeah.
Yeah, and I know JetBrains are doing the latest PSF developer survey. So,
yeah, we'll see kind of what happens in this year's number. But I'd imagine FastAPI would
would still be the third most popular.
So yeah, it's pretty, it's brilliant.
So yeah, I think it's a good, it's a good solid pick
in terms of writing like full apps with it at the moment.
Like there's still a lot you have to do for templating.
Like you, you pretty much have to like build
in a whole bunch of other templating stuff
and picking an ORM at the moment isn't easy
but there are some brilliant ones to have a play with.
- Yeah, there's a couple interesting ones.
- I wanna give a shout out to.
- Yeah, that give like the similar
and even integrating with Pydantic,
which is sort of the natural exchange of FastAPI.
So you wanna give a shout out to Tortoise you say?
- Yeah, that's my favorite so far.
I've used, I've tried out six different ones so far.
(laughs)
- Yeah.
- And Tortoise I think is my favorite at the moment, so.
- Right on.
Well, maybe next year we'll be talking about the award
for SQL model, which is built on top of Pydantic
plus SQLAlchemy by Sebastian as well.
So who knows?
A lot of good ones out there.
It's good to see a lot of the excitement
and new ideas coming on there.
All right, what else we got?
Crystal, don't care.
Windows Terminal, I think is actually pretty interesting.
Windows has traditionally been not on par
with its terminal experience.
And I think, you know, the Windows Terminal,
PowerShell 7, Oh My Posh,
all these things come together,
NerdFonts, to make it quite an amazing place to be actually.
- Windows Terminal is an open source project?
- It didn't start out that way, but now it is.
- Yep. - Yeah.
Yeah, so that's a good one.
OBS Studio, if you're doing video stuff, that's amazing.
There's a bunch of stuff in here that may apply to people
that you can all check out that are interesting,
but I don't wanna go over them.
Dask though, Dask is a big data science one.
Scale, computation, like Pandas operations
and what not across cores, across clusters,
across compute that's larger than the RAM you have
by streaming it off disk and all sorts of interesting stuff.
I have no idea why my browser is jumping up and down.
We'll have to ignore that.
I'm not in control, but I'm sorry.
- It seems like...
(laughs)
- You know what?
I'll tell you why this is happening.
I'm looking up and I see I'm not running my VPN,
which would block ads.
And so there's some kind of ad off the screen
that's just running.
And if I had turned on my VPN, we'd be good.
All right, Blazing SQL is another great one.
Rapids from Nvidia.
And I feel like there's one more I wanna give a shout out
Hugging face, I don't know anything about that.
Now that was it.
So I was going through that list.
I thought it called out a lot of neat projects
in addition to just FastAPI.
- Yeah, it's cool.
- Yeah, any of those jump out at you guys either
that I've just screened by?
- Lots of stacks that I don't use.
So yeah.
- There was a bunch of ML stuff though,
which I don't use, but I think would be relevant
to people who are listening maybe.
We're not to extras yet, Michael.
No, no, I know. I just closed it because the jumping was driving me insane.
All right. Anthony, you got the last main one, right?
All right. Yeah. So I think Lukasz is taking up like half of this episode.
So we're going to get back to Lukasz's blog and evolve the discussion that was started last week.
Yeah, I'm, to put it mildly, I'm excited about this. I think if this happens, it's probably
going to be the biggest thing to happen in CPython in the last five years, in my opinion.
And this being the Gil removal.
This be the Gil removal.
Not the Gilectomy.
Not exactly.
Yeah, so no Gil or let's just go with no Gil.
So almost seemingly out of nowhere, Sam Gross, who works at Facebook, basically submitted to the
core developers this research paper and a working branch of a GIL-less Python.
Just quickly recap, I guess, on what that means. This article is pretty heavy in technical detail
and the stuff that's being discussed in the article, again, is pretty complicated and
I actually didn't understand a lot of it. And I've written a book on the Python compiler.
If you read this and it's confusing, don't worry. So the GIL is basically the global interpreter
lock and it exists as a way of making Python thread safe when it comes to keeping reference
counts of specific objects. So if you create a Python object, for example, there's a counter
of how many things are referencing it because you don't want to just destroy an object and
then like you're working through a list of objects, for example, but then one of the
items in the list just disappears, has been deallocated. Because everything is a pointer
in Python, like that pointer just goes nowhere. Or actually there's a magic pointer that Python
uses when it deallocates objects, which I know from a very painful experience. So you
don't want that to happen. And if you've got multiple threads kind of working with the
same objects all at once, you don't want them to -- it's incredibly hard to keep track of
what's happening. Threading is great because you want -- you can have multiple threads
working on a computer and the operating system can do the scheduling of which threads run
on which cores and which CPUs, et cetera. So in theory, it's a way of making your Python
applications a lot faster if you write them to be multi-threaded. But Python's basically
built in this lock, which says, okay, in the evaluation loop in CEVAL, don't let anyone
else run an instruction whilst this thread is running the instruction.
With the exception of wire-bound tasks.
It seems like this is a thing to control threading.
And really, it's just a thing to protect memory management, but it has this huge blocking
effect for threading, right?
Yeah.
So it's a thing to basically make the reference counter thread safe.
Without locking, so it's fast.
Without locking, yeah.
So you don't have to wait to add an income.
So to give you an idea, if you run the GC by hand, you'll just see how many tens of
thousands of objects are just created all the time in Python applications.
So what Sam had put together, I say seemingly out of nowhere, but if you go through the
article and what he proposed, he's actually been working on this almost full time for
two years, which is astonishing.
And it's a real feat of engineering, to be honest.
So kind of what he's proposed is a way of removing the GIL so that there's essentially
like almost two ways of keeping references into objects.
And one of them is specific to the local thread.
And then there's also another reference count, which is for other threads.
So why is that important?
Let's say, for example, you've got a Python dictionary with values in it and then you
have multiple threads all working on the same dictionary.
Like that's a complicated problem to solve.
How do you make sure that the keys, like the references to the keys or the values don't
disappear?
And it does actually go into detail about how that's been handled.
And also objects like Python dictionaries are not thread safe at the moment either.
So if you have two threads working on a dictionary, adding values, for example, to a dictionary,
do you have to lock the hash table?
Anyone who's worked with multithreading in low-level languages knows that the complexities
of doing it.
So what he's proposing is that, well, in his prototype, he basically replaced the Python
memory allocator with another one called Mimalloc, which is a thread safe memory allocator.
It's actually a Microsoft project.
But I think it could have been any other thread safe memory allocator.
Writing memory allocators is very involved for them to be performant and efficient.
And then basically objects get tied to the thread that created them.
And then there's a non-atomic local reference count with the owner thread.
And then there's basically a separate mechanism for what would be slower, basically, reference
counting from other threads.
So single threaded performance is equivalent with this proposal.
But there's still a performance impact of multiple threads working on the same object,
which is to be expected.
Yeah, there's always a little overhead for that.
Yeah, but to give you an idea, in his note, he implemented a few common problems as a multi-threaded implementation.
And he said, if you give it 20 threads, it runs 19.84 times faster than it would in just regular CPython.
So for certain types of problems, this can have enormous impact in performance.
But it is really complicated and that's why I think it's an interesting discussion to see
Okay. How do we how do we get from this is a cool idea to this actually being released and being used by
You know millions of people and I don't know python's like running on like a satellites in space and stuff like
How do we go from a fork that someone's been hacking around with to something? That's like production ready and
And this is what the article goes into.
So how would this work?
Would it be a feature flag?
Which version would we target?
And so at the moment, it's targeting 3.9 alpha 3, actually.
So it wasn't even the release of 3.9.
So he needs to do some work to update that
to the latest version of 3.9, which is 3.9.7.
And then I think the target release,
If the core developers agree to kind of like explore this, if that was 3.11,
or I don't think anyone wants to touch the Python 4 topic.
11 is like a year away. Is that even possible or would it most likely be a couple years out?
Yeah, it seems pretty soon to me. And like sub-interpreters, for example,
is like an experimental feature. I think the issue with this is that it's that the volume
of changes is so broad that it's quite hard to kind of like have it in as a feature toggle.
So like Cyber Interpreters was in as like a like a hidden package that you can use and
it's experimental. Whereas this is like changing everything. Yeah, well, everything but like
It's a pretty wide sweeping change
and changing the memory allocator is a massive change.
The question is more, how can we introduce this softly, I think,
and have it either as a feature flag,
and what would this break?
And the main thing is that C extensions
haven't really had to worry about thread safety
because the GIL kind of handles that for them.
So C extensions essentially would need to,
If they use the mechanisms that are here, that's fine.
But C extensions often have other objects
which they haven't used the reference count for.
So they've basically kind of like allocated their own objects
and variables and stuff like that
that would not be thread safe.
And they just not have had these kind of collision issues
in the past.
So introducing this would potentially break
some C extensions.
So how could that be introduced gently?
I think what was interesting in the article is there's a mention of NumPy and NumPy has
actually done a lot of its own work already on basically kind of making it thread safe
and more scalable.
But one of the tricky ones is PyBind11 is called out in here as being a, anyone who's
using PyBind11 potentially might have to make some, do some refactoring to support this
if it was supported.
And then in closing, Lukasz, who wrote this review post,
sort of said, you know, the team had been really impressed
with Sam's work and invited him to join CPython Project
as a core developer, and he's interested in,
Lukasz is gonna mentor him.
So I think that's brilliant.
- Oh yeah, that's brilliant.
- Just to come up with this over like, even two years
is like a really short amount of time for a problem
that people have been trying to solve
for well over a decade.
So yeah, very exciting.
- Yeah, this is great.
I think we have a record number of core developers
in the audience right now.
- Yeah.
- So some great comments from Steve Dower.
Hey, Steve, the big thing needed here
is a path forward for native extensions.
They could all need rewriting
or else importing them could re-enable the GIL.
That discussion is happening now, it's very early.
And Henry Schreiner also has similar comments
that they're considering that, but yeah.
And Henry also says,
"We would be up for refactoring PyBind 11 if needed,
I believe," which is also interesting.
This is exciting.
There's a lot of stuff coming here.
I think another thing in addition to the no-gil
is I got the sense that Sam had added
several other optimizations that were independently
worth adding to Python.
- Yeah.
One of the things I know that there's a lot of tension
around whether or not to do 4.0,
but if it ends up being that all of the extensions
need possibly tweaked, then that might be,
then it's an API change.
And I think a shift to 4.0 might be terrible.
- It would be the right number, yeah.
Well, we should just go to Python 5.0,
so no one's worried about 4.0,
and we'll skip the whole conversation, it'll be fine.
- We'll do it in AngularJS, we'll just like,
and make a big fuss about going from one to two,
and then just all of a sudden they're on like version 10
or something.
- Yeah, we'll just go crazy.
Yeah, no, this is fantastic.
I'm actually having Guido van Rossum and Mark Shannon,
I believe, on Monday on Talk Python to talk about
like performance in the future and stuff,
and I'm sure we'll talk about this stuff a little bit.
Yeah, so it should be a lot of fun.
This was Guido's suggestion when I asked internally
if anyone wanted to share anything.
This is what he sent over.
- Okay, fantastic.
Yeah, so I'll try to take that up with him again.
All right, well, Brian, does that bring us to our extras?
- We are at extras.
Do you have any extras?
- Yeah, now you go first.
Tell us about PyCon.
- Well, call for proposals is open for US PyCon.
I'm pretty excited about that.
I already wrote down like six ideas
of things I might want to talk about.
So, and of course, there's no guarantee,
no matter who you are,
there's no guarantee that you're gonna get in,
but it's fun.
It's fun to come up with proposals anyway.
And it's fun.
I'm definitely going, so I'm pretty excited about that.
And anybody else is gonna propose?
Anthony, you gonna try to talk there?
- Yeah, I've been thinking about that
while I'm gonna put forward.
I wanna put together a talk on performance anti-patterns.
- Oh, that'd be fun.
propose that for next year.
Yeah.
- Because of your name?
Like Ante?
Also-
- None of the text section yet, bro.
(laughs)
- If anybody doesn't know, I wrote a book
and then I rewrote it and I'm finished with it actually.
So it's not out yet, but I'm pretty excited
that I'm finished.
All the betas, there's beta seven out,
has all chapters in it.
So if you're waiting for it to be done, it's done.
It's not in print form yet.
That's gonna happen in January or February.
So I'm pretty excited to get that done.
- I'm hoping for my copy at PyCon, Brian.
I'm pretty sure I paid for the last one as well.
I actually, I paid you in cash.
So I'm gonna give you a copy of my book.
- I'll bring, I'll bring at least bring-
- Maybe we can do a swap.
- Swap, yeah.
That'd be great.
- Yeah, Anthony, I got your book over there.
I'm not sure what I can trade it for though.
(laughing)
That's awesome. Congratulations, Brian.
Thanks.
Anthony, you got any extras you want to share?
Yeah, I'll be shipping fairly soon the JIT compiler that I've been working on called Pigeon.
I'll be going version 1 in two weeks.
So it's a Python 3.10 JIT compiler.
You basically just drop it into CPython and turn it on
and then run your code and it just JIT compiles it in the background.
And in some cases, makes it a lot faster and in other cases, makes no difference.
But yeah, some of the benchmarks I've been doing, like floating point math and
integer math, like makes a massive difference. So yeah, like the scientific side of thing, right?
- Yeah, so stuff that you would otherwise think,
oh, I'm gonna redo this in Cython or something like,
yeah, you don't have to add all the extra stuff.
You just kind of turn it on and, yeah.
And body benchmarks now 60% faster than standard CPython.
- That's great.
- And yeah, some of the other benchmarks
I've got a 60% upwards.
- That's super cool.
So this work with Sam and the NoGIL,
Does that throw a spinner in the works or span?
- It would make my life quite hard for a few weeks
if it gets merged.
Yeah, so yeah, that could be interesting.
And I'm also working on a secret project,
but I'll share that in a few weeks.
Yeah, Pigeon does, there's a comment in the chat,
Pigeon does use scikit-build,
which I did want to call that out
when we were talking about setup.py earlier,
'cause yeah, so Pidgin uses C, is all C++
and it uses CMake, which generates make files.
So yeah, and it uses scikit-build,
which is a CMake extension,
I guess, around Python extension modules.
So that's how it kind of compiles.
It's really cool.
- Yeah, that's cool. - It's scikit-build.
- Yeah, and I recommended using build earlier.
Henry on our episode together mentioned
that if you have external non-Python code,
like C code or Fortran or whatever,
then instead of build, scikit-build would be a good option
to build the binary bits for that.
This is the other question I wanted to ask
and Steve Dower beat me to it.
He says, he states it as an assertion.
I was gonna ask you the question.
I bet once Pigeon ships, you'll get people interested
in helping add optimizations.
Yeah, so it's one thing to JIT compile.
It's another to just then straight up run it
versus go, oh, we can inline this method.
Oh, and I see we can do this.
And then like, we could actually reuse this field
'cause it's not used below and early free,
all that kind of stuff.
Where's the optimization of that looking?
- Yeah, I've got it like on the documentation page
there's a optimization section
and I've kind of written up a lot of the optimizations
and how they work,
assertions that they make and compromises
and stuff like that.
So yeah, if you're interested, there's some info on there.
But yeah, I'd love more help on this.
The learning curve on the project is quite steep,
but I'm trying to make it easier.
I mean, it is a compiler, so like, yeah.
And I just added ARM support as well.
So M1, Apple M1, and I tested Linux ARM 64,
and in theory, Windows ARM,
but I don't have access to any machines
to test the Windows one.
And I could only test the Apple one.
- If you need a periodic test, you can reach out.
I got a Windows 11 running on ARM.
- Oh, really? Okay.
- Yeah. - Yeah, maybe I'll take you
up on that.
- Very cool.
All right, I have a couple throughout there as well.
Python Software Foundation on Twitter, the PSF,
announces, "We're happy to announce
"the Python Developer Survey 2021.
"Take part in it."
This is the one that is then hosted,
and then the data analysis is done by JetBrains,
but not influenced by JetBrains.
So I'll link to that in the show notes.
Be sure to get out there and take that.
Henry, in the audience, I have something as well,
the feature for what you said the other day on Twitter.
I said, "After Python's bytes mentioned on yesterday's show,
"I asked for a new feature and it's already in pipx.
"pipx run pypi command line wheels."
And it basically, this is added to pypi command line.
and it'll tell you all sorts of cool stuff,
like the details of the wheel.
So you could run pipx,
basically run pypi-command-line wheels numpy,
however you run that, and it'll tell you,
like for numpy on macOS 10 Universal,
does it have a signature, is there a binary distribution,
what versions are supported, how old is it, how big is it?
Same thing for Linux architecture, ARM on Windows,
and so on, so on.
So you get like just this cool graph using rich
of like tables of tables telling you about
the status of wheels on different platforms
straight out of PyPI, which I thought was cool.
- Nice.
- Yeah, so that's pretty good.
So Henry, thanks for making that happen.
Also on the last episode out in the YouTube,
not live comments, we got a message from,
I wanna make sure I get the attribution,
from Bahram and said,
we talked about, what is it?
- T-Bump.
- T-Bump, that was it, T-Bump for bumping the versions.
He said, "Oh, that's cool, I use bump to version,"
which is another option to do some similar types of things.
Could work with or without source control,
all kinds of stuff, so fun one to check out.
And Brian, you sound really good this time.
Like last time I thought maybe a bee
had gotten into your microphone?
What was the story of that?
- It's a long story.
Basically, I had to throw away a mic.
So I had a bad mic and a bad cable,
but I have a new excellent cable.
- It's tough when the two things that are connected together
are both broken at the same time.
- The buzzing, I think, was definitely my cable.
I think there was a feedback thing going on.
- Were you getting an SMS?
- But then, and then I was examining everything
in my audio chain and just got rid of the stuff
that wasn't working.
- Yeah, you sound great.
New mics even better than before.
So like a Phoenix, you're back.
(laughing)
- Nice image too.
- Yeah, and then have you got your Mac Pro yet?
- No, I just bought a Mac a couple of years ago.
I'm not gonna buy another one right now.
- Anthony, are you using one of these
to test your own version?
No.
- I don't have a spare $4,000.
- Yes.
- For another laptop.
And also I was like, I don't really need a laptop
'cause I never leave the house, so like.
- Yeah, that is a big problem.
I mean, I am so loving my Mac mini and my 4K monitor
that I'm just like, I don't wanna leave, I don't wanna leave.
All right, well, that's it for the extras.
I think it's time for a joke.
Maybe Robert's got the first one out there.
Can't complain about Brian, it's all about the hair.
You gotta see the live stream for that one.
But yeah, I agree with that.
Next Halloween I want to go as Cousin It, so I got a ways to go.
[LAUGHTER]
Anthony, are you up for doing this joke?
Yeah.
I got it on my screen.
Oh, you got it on yours?
Yeah, I'll put it to yours. All right.
OK. So, it's a picture, so I'll have to describe it.
I couldn't stop laughing at this when I saw it.
So this is Frodo explaining to Gollum.
And there's Gollum sitting at a computer looking quite confused
Looking at a picture of the ring and it says buy now one ETH
And as a very right
Yeah
Yeah as in the theorem and photos basically trying to convince Gollum to buy an NFT of the ring instead of actually having the ring
And underneath my digital precious
So underneath it says so you can't own the precious
physically, but you can pay to have your name listed as its owner in an online distributed
database.
It's only what is that like 400 US dollars, 500 Australian, something like that.
I know that's a lot for a listing.
I don't own any NFTs yet, nor have I sold any.
I don't plan to either.
Man I feel like we're totally missing.
We're missing an opportunity to brand some of our former episodes.
Maybe like I could just take screenshots of Brian laughing at different times out of the
live stream and then like turn it into a stream of NFTs that we'll retire upon.
Oh yeah, let's do that.
Yeah.
Oh, fantastic.
All right.
Oh, that was a good one.
Thanks, Anthony.
And thanks for being here on this big episode.
- 256.
- Okay, I feel like we've maybe gone slightly over this.
This is not really a Python bite.
This week is more of a Python lunch.
- Sandwich.
- Yeah, it's a proper meal, a Python dinner,
but it was a good one.
We talked about a lot of stuff
and a bunch of great people in the audience
gave us like really good inside information
on where things are going.
So, thanks for being here.
- Thanks, Brian.
- Yeah, all right.
Bye y'all.
- Thank you.
[BLANK_AUDIO]